High in this video we're going to continue looking at the mathematical operations using decimals.
So as usual I import a decimal and the decimal module and the decimal object of the decimal class and
the first thing that we want to look at are going to be the odd div which is this and the maade operators.
And that's because they are fundamentally different between integers and decimals of floats and decimals.
And that's because of the way that the div operator works thus into the division works differently for
the decimals that it does for integers.
So let's take a look at that.
And in particular I want to point out that it always does satisfy this equation which you're probably
tired of seeing by now.
But it does satisfy
the equation here.
OK.
And the other numerator and denominator.
And when we think of this as a fraction.
All right.
So let's take a look let's start with some integers x and y let's say 10 and 3 and we can print x y
and x y or we could just print div maade X come a Y.
Right.
That would work the same way.
We can also do this.
Did Monda X come y which just returns a tuple of the div and not operators respectively.
So if we do that we'll notice that we have you know tender Div 3 is 3 and 10 month.
We one.
And of course the mod returns the same thing and the other thing too is that we're going to go ahead
and check and make sure that X equals Y times x y plus X Y.
Right.
We know that we should be satisfying that equation.
And we do indeed and we've seen that before when we were looking at integers.
Now let's go ahead and do the same thing.
But instead of using integers we're going to use decimals.
So I'm just going to copy paste this entire chunk of code and instead of doing this we're going to do
decimal 10 and decimal 3.
Now as we discussed these are both positive numbers.
The result is going to be positive and therefore the computation is going to be identical.
We're going to get the same results right.
So we also get 3 1 right and we get 3 decimal 3 decimal 1 and we get that this equation is true.
CAMP And that's because we're dealing with positive numbers.
Now let's change this and let's make x negative here and let's make x negative here and let's rerun
this and you can see now that our div is negative for our models to free a rerun of Kesh.
You'll see that our div is negative 3 and Ahmad is negative 1.
So we have different values for the div and man but the equation still holds true in both cases right.
So just be a little careful with that because there is a difference as we looked at in the previous
video on how this this is calculated and therefore in order for this equation to still be satisfied
that means that the model has to be calculated slightly differently to OK.
Now in terms of other mathematical functions.
So other math functions I can spell type I should say.
So let's look at some other math functions.
Now the decimal class has a lot of math functions built in.
So if you want you to do you know he can just go online and look at it or if you want.
Here you can take a look don't worry about the donder methods for now.
We'll look at those kinds of methods when we get into object or in programming.
These are special methods that are used to actually implement certain functions in Python and Python
is very polymorphic.
So when you do this arm drive operator or this model operator here.
Well that's it works differently here and here based on the context because these are integers these
are decimals and it knows that it's going to calculate things differently and it those that because
the decimal class implements those two operators and so by polymorphism it knows that.
OK if I'm running this calculation here I've got two decimals.
I'm going to go and use the implementation of do the decimal class not the implementation of do that
we have somewhere else.
Let's say if we had two integers.
Right.
And that's what these Dunder methods are for.
But we'll see that in a lot of detail later on in the schools.
So let's go ahead and skip past those and see some of the functions that we have and this quite a few.
You've got the copy sine function that we've seen before.
But here you have the exponent right.
That's the exponential function.
So either the power of x.
Right.
And there's other things as well.
But we have like a skip ahead.
Here we have the natural log.
Here we have the log base 10.
Here we have a log to any base b and so on it's got Maximin.
I mean there's a lot of stuff that it can do.
One thing that it doesn't have for example other trigger symmetric functions but it has things like
the square root which would have to scroll down to see more.
Here's the square root for example.
So all these methods are implemented in the decimal class.
So let's take a look at how we have to deal with this.
Well first of all let's see how we would call it.
Right because how do we call these methods.
So let's say we have a.
Which is decimal 1.5.
Now we can print a.
Now we want to find let's say the natural the natural log of a well we'd have to say a dot L and so
it is a basically a class method that you call on the object.
Right.
It's not.
You don't say L.N. of a like you would when you were using the math module for example.
Right.
We do it this way.
You can print some of the other ones too.
We can say you know take each to the power of 1.5 or you can print a dot square root let's say if you
want the square root and so on.
Right.
And so we get these values here.
Now what's interesting is that these are going to be little different than if we were using floats.
And again this is because we will have a different real value for 1.5 depending on whether we're using
a float or using a decimal.
So you can certainly import the math module.
OK so we can import math and we can run the math functions on a decimal so we can say for example math
not square root of a.
We can do that.
But as you can see it's not quite the same right.
And in this case we have 1.5.
So we're actually getting the same digits.
But let's change those two to let's say.
Well actually just change this to zero point 1 and do that.
And as you can see now we're starting to get some little differences here right.
This is 7 9 3 3 and this was 7 9 4.
So that's not rounded.
Right.
That's because there is a difference in the representation and we'll see that in more clearly in a couple
of minutes.
So you can call the math functions on a decimal but what happens that it forced converts the decimal
to a float and then runs the operation.
And that's probably not what you want.
In general.
You want to try and you don't use that fixed precision that you have of decimals and that exact representation
that you have with decimals that you don't have with floats so therefore you probably want to stay away
from that.
So let's see some differences.
I'm going to define two variables one will be hard to is a just a regular integer and the other one
would be a decimal integer.
And what we want to do here is I want to look at the root of float
and we'll do that and then we're going to do a root mixed root mixed with mean by that is I'm going
to take the square root function from the math model but I'm going to apply it to the decimal version
of that integer k and then we're going to take the root purely in the decimal which is done by saying
X that dot square root.
And now we're going to print and we're going to format each one of those so we can get a better idea
of what's going on.
So let's format it this way.
So let's do the root mixed as well.
And then we're just going to print routes that I don't have to format that one.
And let's see what we get.
So as you can see the first two values are identical even though we passed in the decimal equivalent
of two to this method.
Right.
The square root method is in the math module false converted to a float.
So this was first converted to a float and then it performed its float version of the square root which
is not the same as what we get when we performed the square root on the decimal numbers.
And one thing that we can look at that's interesting is to look at this.
Now I'm going to take this copy paste and I'm going to take root float times root float.
Right.
That should give us the original number back.
Now the problem is that it's our root mixed.
The problem is that square root of two is not a rational number.
So in fact we'll probably won't get our original number back in any of those cases right.
Because square root of two is 1.4 one for and then a bunch of decimal then it goes and goes on infinitely.
Of course we can store an infinite number of digits on the computer.
So we're not going to end up with things back exactly the way they were when we multiply the two square
roots.
We're not going to get two back.
Precisely.
But let's see the difference.
As you can see this is what we get back when we use the float operation.
Right.
So we're off at this digit here right.
Two point or four.
And here we start being off.
But if you look at the precision of this if you look at how you know this number is compared to two
it is much closer to two than this number here.
Right.
And then either of those numbers there.
So again we had a better.
If you want to think of it that way.
Square root.
Now we can make this far more obvious if we change this to 0 1 0 or 1.
So let's go ahead and change that to zero point zero or 1.
Now I want to point out that if we were to do a format of x at let's say 27 I got to run this first
I guess.
There we go.
Right.
We don't have exactly zero point 1.
So already we have an issue here with X. It's not exactly 0 1 0 1.
Now what's the square root of 0 1 0 1.
Well it's 0 1 1.
So let's go ahead and run this again.
So that's the same code.
And let's see what happens.
Remember the thing I said about not using floats.
Well I made that mistake there because before I was using integers it didn't matter.
In this case I'm using floats.
I've got to be careful.
So I probably should have also printed out x decimal to make sure I had that right.
So there we go.
So the X decimal is exactly zero 1.
Before when I had this it wasn't right.
It was actually this number here because I was pushing a float into the constructor.
So I didn't get exactly 0 0 1.
So that's an easy mistake to make.
Be careful with it.
All right let's run our calculations.
And now let's run it again.
There we go.
So now rude decimal is exactly zero point 1 whereas the float version and the mixed version gave us
this approximation to zero point 1.
And so what happens when we Now multiply the results with each other.
Then you can see that in the case of the floats in the mix we don't get 0.01 back exactly.
Whereas in the decimal case we did we got 0.01 back.
Exactly.
All right.
So that's it for the math operations.
So just to recap you can use the math library and they're all functions and old math library that are
not available in the decimal class.
So there you don't have much of a choice.
You're going to have to basically work with floats.
Right.
But the decimal class does implement a fairly large number of mathematical functions.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.